# University-Final-Year-Project
This was project I completed during my final year of university. The Project was an automation system that could be used within a small office to control environment.
The Project looked at implementing operations that could control the following; lighting, heating, energy saving controls, feedback displays
This project was designed on two microcontrollers; one microcontroller was used to read sensor data and the other was used to control outputs. Both communicated with one another through Bluetooth modules.
The sensor microcontroller was connected to three sensors; a temperature reader, a PIR sensor, and a reed switch. The temperature reader was used to read room temperature, the PIR sensor was used to detect user activity within the room, and the reed switch was used to detect activity of the door (a short design of intended placement of reed switch can be found in the repository).
The second microcontroller was connected to two output systems; a relay and a stepper motor. The relay was used to control lighting (for the prototype the relay was used to activate a lamp) and the stepper motor was used to control heating (a design sketch of intended placement of stepper motor can also be found in the repository). A RTC was also used with this system to control time-based functions.
This microcontroller also had coded the energy saving controls and the feedback systems. The energy saving controls allow for energy used on heating to be reduced during periods of inactivity within the room, energy use on heating to be reduced during periods of overcrowding, and for energy use for heating and lighting to be stopped outside of office hours. The feedback displays allow for brief details on room activity throughout the day.
Included in this repository is the code for this system, as well as design plans and images of the finished system to provide better insight into operation.
